                             FADAL Emulator


Overview
--------

   The FADAL Emulator may be used to debug or check machine programs. 
   The Emulator is designed to simulate the machine control. It may also 
   be used to back plot an NC program. This function allows the user to 
   graphically display the machine tool path.

   The Emulator, like the machine, may be operated in either the Command 
   Mode or the Command Menu Mode. The selection is made in the parameter 
   settings (SETP).

   Notes:

      ESCAPE button = MANUAL button

         The FADAL EMULATOR looks just like the screen on the CNC 
         portion of the machine, blue with white lettering. Since the 
         Emulator is a look-a-like, it will prompt the user to press the 
         'MANUAL' button on certain operations. THIS IS REPLACED IN THE 
         EMULATOR BY PRESSING THE 'ESC' (ESCAPE) BUTTON.

      Mouse

         The MS-Mouse may be utilized with the CNC Emulator. The mouse 
         may be used with the Draw, Read Disk, and Save Disk commands. 

         When using the Draw command move the mouse to highlight the 
         menu selection desired. This is indicated by the selection 
         changing to the color red. After highlighting the desired menu 
         selection, click either mouse button to execute the selection. 
         Move the arrow to the desired location and click either mouse 
         button to perform the desired operation.


Command Mode for the Emulator
-----------------------------

   The Command Mode (ENTER NEXT COMMAND <) is selected by using the SETP 
   command to view and edit the parameter settings. The CMD MENU option 
   should be OFF.

   Standard Control Commands

      The commands listed below operate identically to the commands in 
      the machine control:

         CH      Change Program Line
         CO      Copy Program Lines
         DE      Delete Program Lines
         DF      Display Fixture Offsets
         DR      Draw Program
         DT      Display Tool Table
         FO      Fixture Offset
         IN      Insert Program Lines
         LI      List Program Lines
         ME      Memory Free
         MU      Menu
         NE      New Program
         NU      Number Program Lines
         PA      Page Editor
         PR      Program Maintenance
         RI      Reinitialize
         SETIN   Set Inches
         SETME   Set Metric
         SETP    Set Parameters
         SU      Sum Program
         TO      Tool Data Input

   Additional Commands

      There are five commands that are specific to the FADAL Emulator:  

         AM      Alter Memory
         QU      Quit
         RD      Read from Disk
         SD      Save to Disk
         VS      View last Screen

      These commands are ONLY used with the Emulator.

         Alter Memory: AM

            This command allows the user to select the amount of RAM 
            memory for the Emulator to use. There are no parameters 
            associated with this command. Enter the AM command and the 
            following menu is displayed:

               AVAILABLE MEMORY OPTIONS:
               (MORE MEMORY ALLOWS MORE PROGRAMS BUT WILL SLOW THE 
                  SYSTEM DOWN)
               1) 38K
               2) 100K
               3) 166K
               4) 294K
               5) 422K
               CURRENT AVAILABLE MEMORY: (current amount, i.e. 294)
               HOW MUCH MEMORY DOES YOUR MACHINE HAVE [1]?

            The prompt defaults to option 1. Press ENTER to accept the 
            default selection or enter the desired memory option number 
            and press ENTER. When the Emulator is using more memory than 
            the selection the following message appears:

               CANNOT ALTER MEMORY WITHOUT DESTROYING DATA
               DO YOU WISH TO PROCEED WITH MEMORY REDUCTION?

            Press Y and then press ENTER to change the memory 
            requirement. The Emulator deletes the programs from memory 
            and then resets the Emulator. Press N to abort the command.

         Quit: QU

            This command is used to exit the Emulator software. The 
            program in the Emulator is retained in memory.

            WARNING: To prevent the loss of program changes the program 
                     MUST be saved prior to exiting the software.

         Read Disk: RD

            This command is used to load disk files into the Emulator 
            memory. After entering the RD command a split screen is 
            displayed.

            Left Side Display

               The left side of the screen displays four boxes labeled 
               UP, TYPE, DOWN, and ABORT. The files in the data 
               directory are listed below the four boxes. The data 
               directory is displayed at the bottom of the left side.

               UP

                  Place the pointing arrow inside this box, and press 
                  either mouse button, to select this option. This 
                  option is effective ONLY when there is more than one 
                  page of the filename listing. The UP option pages up 
                  through the filename listing.

               DOWN

                  The DOWN option is used to page down through the 
                  filename listing. This option is effective ONLY when 
                  there is more than one page of the filename listing. 
                  Place the pointing arrow inside this box, and press 
                  either mouse button to select this option.

               TYPE

                  The TYPE box allows the user to input the filename to 
                  be used. When this box is selected the filename box on 
                  the right side of the screen is cleared for input. 
                  Enter the filename to load into the Emulator memory. 
                  When the filename has been typed, the right side of 
                  the screen displays the file listing and drawing. 
                  Press ENTER to load the file into the memory.

                  The user may also enter wildcards for a listing.

                  Example:

                     To view the list of all programs in the directory 
                     that have an NCC extension enter the following:

                        *.NCC 

                     When this wildcard entry is typed the list of all 
                     files with an NCC extension is displayed.

               ABORT

                  Select this option to discontinue the RD command. The 
                  file displayed is NOT loaded into memory.

            Right Side Display

               The right side of the screen is separated into three 
               sections. There is a Filename box, a File listing box, 
               and a File drawing box.

               Filename Box

                  This box displays the name of the file selected from 
                  the filename listing or input with the TYPE option as 
                  described above.

               File Listing Box

                  A listing of the program is displayed, in the second 
                  box, for the selected filename. This is for display 
                  purposes ONLY.

               File Drawing Box

                  The third box displays the drawing for the selected 
                  filename. The file MUST have been drawn with the DR 
                  command before graphics may be displayed.

            File selection

               Selection of a file from the filename listing is 
               accomplished with the mouse. Move the pointing arrow to 
               the desired filename and press either button. The 
               filename is displayed in the filename box at the top of 
               the right side of the screen. The file is listed on the 
               right side of the screen in the file listing box.

               To load the selected file into memory using the mouse, 
               follow the procedure below.

                  1) Move the pointing arrow to the desired filename in 
                     the filename listing.

                  2) Press either mouse button. The file is displayed on 
                     the right side of the screen.

                  3) Move the pointing arrow to the filename in the 
                     filename box on the right side of the screen.

                  4) Press either mouse button. This loads the program 
                     into memory and exits the RD command.

         Save Disk: SD

               The SD command is used to save the current program to a 
               disk file.

               Data Option

                  The Data Options are as follows:

                     0 = Program and Tooling Data
                     1 = Tooling Data Only
                     2 = Program Data Only
                     3 = All Programs In Memory

               After entering the SD command, the same screen as the RD 
               command is displayed. The left side of the screen 
               operates the same. The right side of the screen displays 
               the same data as the RD command, for the program in 
               current memory. The filename to use may be selected from 
               the listing or typed in.

               Save the file using the same procedures as the RD command 
               uses to load a file.

         View Screen: VS

            This command displays the last graphic draw display that was 
            saved using the saVe screen command.


Command Menu Mode for the Emulator
----------------------------------

   The Command Menu Mode is similar to the machine control. There are 
   nine option selections available from the main menu.

      1) SETUP

         There are three options available when SETUP is selected.

         1) TOOLS

            This selection performs the DT command and displays the tool 
            table.

         2) FIXTURES

            This selection performs the DF command and displays the 
            fixture offsets.

         3) PARAMETERS

            This selection performs the SETP command and displays the 
            parameter settings menu.

      2) MEMORY

         There are three options available for this selection.

         1) AVAILABLE

            This option performs the ME command and displays the 
            percentage of free memory.

         2) ADJUST

            This option performs the AM command described at the 
            beginning of the Emulator section.

         3) REINITIALIZE

            This option performs the RI command as described in the 
            FADAL Users Manual.

      3) PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

         This selection has four options available.

         1) READ FROM DISK

            This option performs the RD command.

         2) SAVE TO DISK

            This option performs the SD command.

         3) LIBRARY

            This option performs the PR command.

         4) CLEAR

            This option performs the NE command.

      4) RUN

         There are two options for this selection.

         1) DRAW

            This selection performs the DR command.

         2) SUMMARY

            This selection has two options available.

            1) BEGIN

               This option performs the SU command with all parameters 
               set to zero except the display option. The display option 
               is set to one (SU,,,,1).

            2) SELECT OPTIONS

               This selection prompts for input of each SU command 
               option. At the end of input the desired SU command is 
               performed.

      5) VIEW SCREEN

         This selection performs the VS command and displays the last 
         saved draw screen.

      6) COMMAND

         Selecting this option places the Emulator in the Command mode. 
         Any Emulator command may be entered and executed in this mode.

      7) MESSAGE

         This option displays the last screen message.

      9) QUIT

         Select this option to exit the Emulator software. The programs 
         in the Emulator memory are retained in the memory. When 
         Emulator is started again, the same program and offsets are in 
         current memory.


Graphics for the Emulator (‘DR’ command or ‘G’ key from Page Editor)
-------------------------

   This command is used to back plot the machine program. The program in 
   current memory is back plotted. The graphic display shows the tool 
   motion for the program. 

   Note:  The graphics in the EMULATOR are different than the CNC88 HS 
          graphics.

   When the DR command is entered or from the Page Editor the G key is 
   pressed, the graphics screen is displayed. The left side of the 
   screen displays the options available during the Draw command. During 
   the draw sequence, at the bottom of the screen will be displayed the 
   tool number, diameter number, fixture number, spindle speed, and 
   feedrate. Errors that occur are displayed at the top of the screen.

   The mouse is functional with the menus using the procedures below.

      1) Move the mouse until the desired option changes color to RED.

      2) Press either mouse button one time to select the option.

   Menu options have one letter that is capitalized. The option may also 
   be selected by pressing this letter.

   Auto

      This option begins drawing the program tool motion. The drawing 
      continues until an error occurs or another option is selected. 
      When an error occurs the user is prompted to continue or save the 
      screen. The Auto is stopped by using the Single, or Escape 
      (Manual) options.

   Single

      The Single option operates in the same manner as Single Step on 
      the machine. One line of the program is displayed each time the 
      option is selected. Press the SPACEBAR to advance one line.

   Paint

      The paint option may be selected at any time. The graphics screen 
      is cleared of the tool path drawing. After the screen is cleared, 
      the Auto option begins drawing from the last position .

   Zoom

      This option allows the user to increase or decrease the size of 
      the part drawing. Select the Zoom option to display the Zoom Menu 
      and screen grid. The current drawing remains in the graphic 
      display area. The mouse MUST be used to increase the size of the 
      drawing, by creating a Zoom box on the drawing. The procedure 
      described below is used to Zoom the drawing.

         1) Move the pointing arrow to a position over a corner of the 
            Zoom box.

         2) Press and hold the left mouse button down.

         3) Drag the pointing arrow to the opposite X and Y corner for 
            the box. The box is displayed as it is drawn. The Zoom box 
            represents the graphic display area. The box is increased to 
            the size of the graphic display area. The entities inside 
            the box are correspondingly increased.

         4) Select the Continue option. The graphic display area and 
            main menu are displayed. Drawing resumes if in Auto mode.

      Full table (zoom)

         The Full table option shows the entire machine table size in 
         the display area. The table size is set with the SETP command. 
         The Full table display shows a grid pattern with one inch 
         squares. A RED square is displayed on the grid pattern. This 
         red square depicts the area of the table that is depicted on 
         the graphic draw display. The drawing may be zoomed up or down 
         by creating a new Zoom box on this display.

         To return to Full table size graphic draw display, select the 
         Full table option then select Continue.

      Continue (zoom)

         The selection of the Continue option returns to the main 
         graphics menu. Drawing resumes if in Auto mode.

      Escape (zoom)

         The Escape option returns to the main menu. Drawing resumes         
         if in Auto mode.

   Tools

      This option allows the user to change tool diameters. The display 
      color for each tool is also selectable. This enables the user to 
      identify the tool number by the color displayed while back 
      plotting.

      The tool list displayed, when the option is selected, is the 
      current tool table data in the Emulator. This may be edited or 
      deleted. The data may be typed into the tool table or read from 
      the tool table. The data may be read from a disk file or saved to 
      a disk file.

      Selecting Data

         Get table

            Select this option to input the tool diameter data into the 
            table. The current tool table data is loaded when the DR 
            command is entered. If temporary changes have been made, 
            this option reads the current tool table data.

         Put table

            This option is used to place the edited data into the 
            current tool table. After editing tool data, use this option 
            to insure the Emulator uses this data.

         Load tools

            This option loads tool data from a disk file. These files 
            have been saved using the Save tools option. See the RD 
            command for procedures to load tools.

         Save tools

            This option saves the tool data as a disk file. See the SD 
            command for procedures to save tools.

         page Up

            Select this option to page through the tool table. The mouse 
            may also be used to select UP on the tool list.

         page Down

            This option is used to page down through the tool table. The 
            mouse may also be used to select DOWN on the tool list.

         Edit Data

            Move the mouse until a box is displayed around the tool data 
            to edit. Press either mouse button and the number resets to 
            zero. Enter the new tool data and press ENTER. Use the Put 
            tools option to replace the value in the tool table.

         Edit Colors

            Move the mouse until a box is displayed around the color to 
            change. Press either mouse button. Another box is displayed 
            around the same color in the second set of colors. Move the 
            box to the new color. Press either button on the mouse to 
            change the color.

         diameter (radius)

            This option MUST be selected by the mouse. This option 
            toggles between diameter and radius. When diameter is 
            selected the tool data uses the tool diameter. When radius 
            is selected the tool data uses the tool radius.

         Reset

            The Reset option is used to reset all tool data to zero. Use 
            the Put tools option to clear the tool table data.

         Continue

            This option returns to the draw main menu. The drawing is 
            resumed if using the Auto option.

   speeD

      There are three speeds at which the draw will perform. These are 
      slow, medium, and fast. Select the appropriate option for the 
      speed desired. Select the Escape option to return to the drawing.

   Rotate

      This option may be used to display the tool path drawing in 
      different views. The display may be rotated in the 2D or 3D 
      planes. The directions of rotation available are as follows: xy 
      ccw, xy cw, xz ccw, xz cw, yz ccw, and yz cw. While back plotting 
      the tool width is apparent only in 2D. In other view selections 
      the tool center line is depicted by a colored line.

      hOme

         Select the hOme option to return to the XY view without tool 
         width display.

      2-D

         The 2-D option returns to the draw sequence. The drawing is 
         finished in the 2D view. The tool diameter is depicted while 
         back plotting in this view.

      Continue

         Continue returns to the main graphics menu.

      Escape

         This option is used to exit the rotation menu without using any 
         rotation.

   saVe scrn


      The drawing in the graphic display area may be saved to a disk 
      file. Select this option to save a drawing file. The last saved 
      drawing will be overwritten.

   redraW

      When this option is selected, the user is prompted for a start 
      string. This string may be any code in the program. To begin 
      drawing at a specific tool, enter the T word for the tool at the 
      prompt. Press ENTER, without entering a string, to begin at the 
      start of the program.

      Example:

         To begin at tool number three, type T3 at the prompt and press 
         ENTER. The redraW option searches the program for the T3 code. 
         The drawing begins from the line with the T3 code. The error 
         message CANNOT FIND: is displayed at the bottom of the screen 
         if the code is not in the program. Enter a correct code and try 
         again. 

      After entering the start string the software returns to the main 
      menu. Select the Auto or Single option to begin drawing from the 
      specified start string. 

   Help

      The Help option displays a basic explanation of each selected 
      option. To view a help screen follow the procedure below.

         1) Move the mouse until the desired option changes to the color 
            RED.

         2) Press the letter H. The option changes to the color white. 
            The brief explanation of the option is displayed below the 
            option.

         3) Press ENTER to continue and return to the main menu.

   Escape

      Select the Escape option or press the ESC key to exit the DR 
      command. This returns the Emulator to the Command mode.

